# Analyst Portfolio
This is my analyst portfolio for SIS 750, showcasing my best work this semester in data science. In this portfolio, you will find four things: two original research products, an exemplary code chunk, and my resume. 

# Russian Public Sentiment Research Project 
The first research product is an examination of public sentiment in Russia regarding the top problems facing the country. I used public survey data from the Global Barometer Surveys which contains 1205 observations from Russian citizens in 2021. According to these surveys, corruption and economic issues dominate as the top national concerns in Russia. My approach to this reserach project was to start with the survey question about what the most important problems facing Russia that the government should address are. From there, I dove deeper into the top two issues: corruption and economic issues. To examine why so many Russians consider corruption to the top issue facing Russia, I looked at two survey questions: (1) How widespread do you think corruption and bribe-taking are in your local/municipal government? and (2) How widespread do you think corruption and bribe-taking are in the national government? To examine why so many Russians consider various economic issues to be the top problem facing the country, I looked at two more survey questions: (3) How would you rate the overall economic condition of Russia today? and (4) How fair do you think income distribution is in Russia? 

# Chinese Value Added Trade Research Project 
My second research product is an analysis of the value added trade in China's exports using the OCED's Trade in Value (TiVA) database. I calculated the value added in China's exports as a percentage of total value added to see which countries have contributed the most to Chinese supply chains. I used the percentage of total value added rather than nominal figures to account for inflation and to identify broader geopolitical trends. In 2022, 83 percent of the value in Chinese exports originated in China, which suggests that China's domestic industry remains quite strong. Also, no single country accounts for more than five percent of value added in Chinese exports, underscoring China's effort to avoid over-reliance on any individual partner. The top nine sources of value added in Chinese exports were the United States, Chinese Taipei, South Korea, Japan, Australia, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Germany, and the category for the rest of the world.  

# Exemplary Code Function 
My exemplar code chunk is a custom R function that I created for project that required creating 20 graphs from OECD's TiVA (Trade in Value Added) data set. Rather than spend the time formatting each graph individually, I used this R function to make the process more efficient.

# Resume 
My resume includes highlights from my academic history, my career at the US State Department, and my technical skills in data science. 
